---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---
This project began as a way to collect information about the ways Twitter is currently being preserved and archived. Starting with the Library of Congress' attempt to archive the entirety of Twitter, and its later admission that this was too much of an undertaking for even the Library to accomplish, I was curious about how other organizations, institutions, artists, internet users, etc are attempting to perform this same process. Conversations about how to best preserve Twitter mainly focus on breaking Twitter down into digestible parts, such as archiving significant political tweets, the ethical and moral implications of preserving information without Twitter users' consent, and the technical skills, money, and other resources needed to complete such a task. Separating parts of Twitter in order to make it more manageable to preserve is a natural instinct, but I am instead interested in the overwhelming and multfarious aspects of Twitter as a platform. In order to provide a full view of Twitter as a dynamic platform worth preserving, I am approaching the issue of how to preserve Twitter by first focusing on Twitter as a platform, examining its functionality as an informal mode of information sharing where conversations emerge in ways that are impossible offline. The experience of being on Twitter is difficult to capture, and preserving a few tweets cannot accurately represent Twitter. The way conversations on Twitter often spiral off into tangents makes it difficult to capture, and while choosing a narrative to guide a Twitter preserve can help focus it without loosing the weird and chaotic qualities built into Twitter. This understanding is key to any discussion of a Twitter archive, as its structure not only influences the way it can be preserved, but also speaks to the real-world effects that Twitter continues to have. Some of the best reporting is curently being done on Twitter, and through my research I found a lack of materials about the process of preserving this kind of platform.

Ultimately, I found that because of the gaps in current digital preservation strategies and the complexities of Twitter as a platform, the most interesting and effective preservation work on Twitter is happening on an individual level rather than through large organizations like the Library of Congress. Encouraging Twitter users themselves to collaborate and investigate how Twitter can be preserved highlights not only the important conversations happening online, but also affords Twitter users (those who know Twitter best) the power to preserve their own stories. The idea of citizen-archiving allows this process to naturally grow and develop, rather than cater to the needs of a large institution.

This catalog includes many different resources, such as Twitter accounts, academic and informal writing about Twitter preservation, and selected Twitter preservation projects. Together, these resources show the power of citizen-archiving in digital preservation work. Similar to the way information is produced and discussed on Twitter, this catalog is meant to be viewed in any order with no importance given to any specific type of source. While I lack the coding skills required to create an interactive archive of Twitter, I hope this website will serve as a resource to investigate digital preservation trends through a close examination of Twitter. I'm hopeful that where a large institution like the Library has failed, smaller organizations and niche Twitter accounts can succeed.
